{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Computer skills\par
\par
Introduction\par
The basic premise of this document is to give you the theory and the terminology to be able to go and look up the rest on your own. There's too many different types of computers to give instructions for each here, and, besides, I believe that a fundamental part of computer literacy is the understanding that you can't know all of it, all you can do is ensure that you know how to find out the stuff you need to know.\par
\par
Because I don't want to accidentally exclude anyone, I have tried to write this guide with the assumption that the person reading it knows that a computer is a machine you operate with a mouse and a keyboard, but doesn't know much more than that. If I mess up and assume a higher level of understanding than you have and you\rquote ve read the whole guide and can\rquote t find the info you need on your own, please contact me. My contact info is at the bottom of the guide.\par
\par
I've broken this thing down into what I consider fundamental computer skills. I do not include anything about Excel or Word or Google Docs because, but the end, I expect you to be able to find that out on your own.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
What is a computer?\par
Computers come in two main operating systems \f1\endash  Microsoft and Apple. Microsoft licenses its operating systems for other companies (like Dell and Acer) to install on their computers, Apple operating systems can only be used by Apple-made computers. Therefore if the front of your computer says Apple, it has an Apple OS. If it says something else, it probably has a Microsoft Windows OS. Neither is technically better than the other, it just changes how you interact with your computer, and what you should search for when looking for help. Some examples of Microsoft operating systems are Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10.\par
\par
On a Microsoft, you can find out what version of Windows you have by finding "About Computer". You might have to search for it on your machine (Windows-key + S sometimes brings up Search)\par
\par
Because a lot of the things you do on a computer are a bit different depending on what operating system you have, any guide like this would have to be super super long to accomodate every OS version across both Microsoft and Apple. So I'm going to give you the terminology and the theory and then you can Google it for yourself (remember to include your operating system so you get more specific info). If you don't know what googling is or how to do it, see the sections on Search Engines or The Internet.\par
\par
\par
\par
Computer programs are basically large collections of code that help you make things happen on your computer. Microsoft Word is a program that helps you write documents. Firefox and Chrome are programs that help you access the internet (we call them 'browsers'). Some computer programs work behind-the-scenes to keep your computer running properly.\par
\par
Don't mess around with .dll or .reg files. If you accidentally move or delete other files, you're probably not going to interfere with your computer itself, however, you might interfere with its programs or your documents. If you accidentally delete something, you can try restoring it by opening your Recycling Bin (it's a folder on your desktop that holds a copy of things you've deleted recently) and right-clicking on the item you accidentally deleted and selecting "Restore". If you accidentally move something, you can try finding it by searching your computer for that item.\par
\par
What is the internet?\par
\ldblquote [The World Wide Web] is an information space where documents and other web resources are identified by Uniform Resource Locators (URLs, such as {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.example.com/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.example.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 ), which may be interlinked by hypertext, and are accessible via the Internet. The resources of the WWW may be accessed by users via a software application called a web browser.\rdblquote  (Wikipedia).\par
Most people refer to the World Wide Web as the Internet, and for the purposes of this guide that\rquote s fine. \par
Note that because the {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www }}{\fldrslt{https://www\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 . part of a URL is implied, people usually don\rquote t bother with it colloquially. Even if you put just, for example, youtube.com into the URL bar of a browser, most modern browsers can infer what you mean and will take you to {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.youtube.com }}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  .\par
The internet is comprised mainly of websites, which are (sometimes interactive) collections of code, copy, data, and images linked together. Facebook.com is a social media website. Cbc.ca is a news website. \par
To take a file from your computer and put it on the internet, you will have to upload it somehow. The way you want to do this will depend on what you\rquote re uploading and why - see Social Media, Email, Sending files to others, and What is a Website.\par
Connecting to the internet\par
Computers have the capability to connect to the internet, but they don\rquote t do it automatically. If you have a laptop, you can connect to the internet via Wifi, which is like a field generated around a router that devices can connect to wirelessly. You might need the password - if it\rquote s your own home wifi, the password might be printed on the side of the router. If it\rquote s not there, call your provider. If it\rquote s not your home wifi and it\rquote s locked, then it belongs to someone else and you\rquote ll have to get the password from them if they\rquote re okay with sharing it. Many cafes have the wifi password posted somewhere inside, or you can ask the barista. Libraries and other public spaces often have free wifi. Sometimes free wifi will prompt you to agree to some terms and conditions before you\rquote re able to start using it. Usually your computer (or phone) will prompt you to \ldblquote sign in\rdblquote  which will take you to a page where you can follow the instructions from there. Public wifi (ie wifi from a router that you don\rquote t own and that many people may be able to connect to) isn\rquote t secure, don\rquote t log in to your bank or your email etc using public wifi if you can help it.\par
Sometimes your device won\rquote t connect to the wifi. Try restarting your router, you should do this every couple of weeks at least, I asked my provider why and they said \ldblquote it\rquote s complicated but basically wifi is just like that\rdblquote . I just googled it and it\rquote s something about if the router makes a mistake it\rquote s easier and more efficient to just restart the connection entirely than go back and fix it piece by piece.\par
Also note that some laptops have a physical switch that turns Wifi on and off. Make sure it\rquote s on.\par
Make sure you\rquote re not in airplane mode.\par
Even if your laptop doesn\rquote t have a physical switch, make sure Wifi is enabled, try clicking the symbol of a computer with a cord next to it, or searching your machine for \ldblquote Wifi\rdblquote .\par
If you have a desktop, you can connect either with an ethernet cord (a cord that physically connects the modem to the computer) or by buying a wifi card (they\rquote re like 20 bucks) which will enable the desktop to connect to the wifi. Most desktops don\rquote t come with wifi capability because they\rquote re usually stationary and it\rquote s usually cheaper and easier to just use an ethernet cord.\par
The lights on your modem indicate stuff like that it\rquote s powered on, that it can get information from the internet, that is can give information to the internet, that your wifi is ready, etc. Each modem is different, try googling your question with the make/model of your modem, or call your provider.\par
\par
Next, you\rquote ll need a browser. This is the name for a computer program that lets you browse the internet. Examples are Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox. I avoid Chrome because it\rquote s Big Data Daddy but avoiding chrome because google owns everything doesn\rquote t make a load of sense because I also already use Gmail and google docs and use Google as my search engine and have an Android phone so they already know everything anyway. I do use Firefox though because it\rquote s open-source and developed by the Mozilla Foundation which a nonprofit dedicated to keeping the web a \ldblquote global public resource\rdblquote  and it just makes me feel better to use because I am at heart a lazy anti-establishmentarian. Back in like 2006 Chrome and Firefox were neck-and-neck for market share but with the rise of Android phones Chrome has overtaken it a lot. Surprisingly even Safari (Apple\rquote s browser, and the iPhone default) has taken a hit.\par
Internet Explorer and Edge (Microsoft\rquote s browsers) are non-standards-compliant and will display pages incorrectly and less securely. The joke is that the only time people use IE or Edge is to find and download a better browser.\par
\par
You can get to websites by typing their address (URL) in the URL bar. Some browsers also have a search bar next to the URL bar for some reason I don\rquote t know because if you type something that isn\rquote t a URL into the URL bar the browser will treat it as a search query and bring you to google or whatever\rquote s results page. \par
A website\rquote s address looks like {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.whatever.com }}{\fldrslt{https://www.whatever.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22 . A website\rquote s address is a short form of its IP address, which is a string of numbers that computers understand better but are useless to humans. Note that in most browsers you can just type whatever.com and it\rquote ll know what you meant.\par
Note that your browser has features like bookmarks and plugins that can save pages you\rquote ve found or enhance your experience in other ways.\par
\par
Contents:\par
Searching your own computer\par
Searching the internet\par
What is a website\par
The Cloud\par
Downloading stuff safely\par
Password management\par
Torrenting\par
Dark Patterns\par
Email\par
Sending files to others\par
Social Media\par
The danger of quantifying likes\par
Fake news\par
The search engine as second brain\par
Advertising, technology, millennials, and nostalgia\par
Forums\par
Photoshop\par
Music \endash  finding, downloading, managing\par
Pictures\par
Youtube\par
Trolls\par
Viruses and malware\par
Ways to mess up your computer accidentally\par
Who owns what\par
Memes and internet culture\par
Ads and adblockers / racketeering\par
"If the service is free, you are the product" theory and exceptions - Wikipedia motivator\par
Keyboard shortcuts\par
Frequent symbols\par
Glossary\par
\par
Searching your own computer\par
If you\rquote re looking for a file or program that\rquote s on your computer, you can find it by doing a local search. This is different from a search of the internet - you can\rquote t find something that\rquote s only on your computer by searching the internet. If you have a Windows OS, you can try pressing the Windows Key on your keyboard and then pressing S while still holding it. Or you can try clicking the Start button (it has the Windows logo on it) and looking at what\rquote s there. Usually a symbol of a magnifying glass means Search. \par
Another, often better (I\rquote ve found stuff this way that was missed by the other way) way to search is by opening the File Explorer (try right-clicking on the start menu) and navigating to the folder you think the item is in (you can do a search from anywhere, but it\rquote ll be faster if you narrow it down). The search bar is probably at the top of the window somewhere.\par
\par
\par
\par
Searching the internet\par
You\rquote ll need to be connected to the internet for this. To search the internet, you type a query into a search engine (google is the most recognizable one but remember that there are others) and it\rquote ll look around the internet and give you a list of results it thinks are relevant. \par
Google is such The Search Engine that \lquote googling\rquote  is a verb now: \ldblquote I googled a recipe for dinner\rdblquote . However if Google/Alphabet\rquote s web monopoly makes you uncomfortable know that there are other search engines. Bing is like Google\rquote s stupider, uglier little brother. Duck Duck Go is dedicated to privacy and by all accounts is just as good as Google and seems pretty free from controversy.\par
The first couple of results are ads, remember that. There\rquote s a tiny little \ldblquote AD\rdblquote  notice next to them but they\rquote re specifically designed to blend in with the results, because whoever\rquote s paying for the ads wants you to click on it and you\rquote re more likely to click if you don\rquote t know it\rquote s an ad and it\rquote s therefore in Google\rquote s best interest to enable this. \par
If you can\rquote t find it in the first or second page of results, it\rquote s probably more efficient to rephrase your search query than to continue looking through the results.\par
You can do some cool stuff with search queries. You can use quotes \ldblquote like this around a word or phrase\rdblquote  to only search for that exact thing in that order, you can use + or - to include or exclude results containing words or phrases, use site:whatever.com to only return results from that site. You can also combine these, for example site:reddit.com/r/aww \ldblquote golden lab puppies\rdblquote  or kittens +playing -goats. There are a lot more of these than what\rquote s listed here.\par
\par
\par
What is a website\par
\par
\par
Downloading programs safely\par
Don\rquote t open files that are emailed/messaged to you by someone you don\rquote t know or by someone you don\rquote t talk to regularly. Look at the section Viruses and Malware.\par
If you have to download and install a program - for example, an antimalware program - here are some things to keep in mind:\par
Only download things from a distributor you trust. Make sure that the address in the URL is correct (for example, if you know and trust whatever.com, they might have copied that site and tried to fool you by using whataver.com). If you\rquote re not sure, try googling the name of the site along with terms like \ldblquote scam\rdblquote  or \ldblquote malware\rdblquote  to see what comes up.\par
Avoid installers and download managers that might come bundled with the software you want. \par
Always get the program from the developer if you can. Some sites re-distribute free software and either try to charge you for it or package it with malware.\par
Read the installation wizard\rquote s prompts very very carefully. Sometimes they\rquote ll try to trick you into installing software you don\rquote t want. See: Dark Patterns. Also click Custom Install to be able to see exactly what\rquote s being installed and uncheck stuff you don\rquote t want.\par
Don\rquote t be fooled by fake \ldblquote download\rdblquote  buttons. \ldblquote Real download buttons tend to be smaller and located closer to the downloadable file's name, version number, and last updated date. Not all software download pages have download buttons, either - many are just links.\rdblquote  - Lifewire.com\par
Beware of .exe files masquerading as anything else. An .exe is a program - therefore if someone sends you funnydog.exe (or funnydog.gif.exe) it is likely malware. Note the \lquote double file extension\rquote  as in funnydog.gif.exe - the last file extension is the only one that matters, this is not a .gif. .Exe\rquote s are the main ones to look out for. Basically don\rquote t open anything if you don\rquote t know what it is. If you\rquote re unsure, google it.\par
\par
\par
\par
The Cloud\par
\ldblquote The cloud refers to software and services that run on the Internet, instead of locally on your computer. Most cloud services can be accessed through a [browser], and some companies offer dedicated mobile apps...Some examples of cloud services include Google Drive, Apple iCloud, Netflix, Yahoo Mail, Dropbox and Microsoft OneDrive. \ldblquote  - recode.net\par
Chromebooks (Google\rquote s OS offering, basically it\rquote s like an Android tablet but with a cursor and a physical keyboard) were designed to utilize the cloud - because the servers hosting the stuff in the cloud are handling most of the computation and storage, you can get higher performance for a lower price. The downside with any cloud-based software though of course is that it\rquote s useless if you don\rquote t have an internet connection.\par
\par
\par
Password management\par
\par
Torrenting\par
Torrenting is downloading large files in many smaller pieces from many different \lquote seeders\rquote  which makes it much faster and more reliable. You\rquote ll need a torrent program (like Utorrent or Bittorrent or Qbittorrent). It opens the .torrent file and processes turning it into chunks and putting the chunks back together. When you\rquote re downloading a file, you\rquote re a \lquote leecher\rquote . When the file is complete, you\rquote re a \lquote seeder\rquote  and the torrent program will enable leechers to download the pieces from your file from you unless you remove the torrent from the list. Torrenting has a bad name because it\rquote s often used to download pirated software and media, but the technology itself is perfectly legal. If you\rquote re caught using it for downloading pirated stuff (usually you\rquote re caught while seeding), you might get a letter asking you to stop and threatening legal action, but in Canada if you don\rquote t reply they have no legal recourse. This might change of course so keep an eye on it.\par
\par
Using a VPN will mostly protect you. A VPN - Virtual Private Network - is a program that routes your internet IP\rquote s traffic and activities through any of the other IPs active on that network at that time, meaning that if you\rquote re using a VPN, your IP might register as being in Britain, Chile, Thailand, wherever, and their IPs might register as yours. This protects everyone because they can\rquote t prove who was doing what where. This information is also encrypted. I don\rquote t know a load about VPNs so definitely do some of your own research. \par
\par
Typically you\rquote ll want to pay for a good VPN (See: \ldblquote If the service is free then you are the product\rdblquote ).\par
\par
\par
Email\par
\ldblquote Electronic mail is a method of exchanging messages between people using electronic devices.\rdblquote  - Wikipedia.\par
To send and receive email, you need to register for an email address. Gmail and Outlook are popular email services. Protonmail is a secure alternative, and it\rquote s less used than the others, so you have a higher chance of getting your first choice of an email address. For example, if you want thisthatwhatever@gmail.com, but somebody else already has it, you\rquote ll have to pick something else. But thisthatwhatever@protonmail.com might still be available.\par
Gmail and Outlook and many other email services provide a way for you to look at and reply to your messages right in the browser (many also have apps for your phone or programs for your computer). The list of all your messages is called your Inbox. There\rquote s also folders like Sent (for emails you\rquote ve sent) and Spam (for emails the service flagged as being spam, ie mass emails that you didn\rquote t sign up for, usually. Spam also sometimes contains malware, so don\rquote t click any links or download any files from a spam email. Sometimes, real email can accidentally get sorted into spam, so if you\rquote re expecting an email and it\rquote s not showing up in your Inbox, check your spam folder.) \par
You can reply to emails directly by clicking \ldblquote Reply\rdblquote . You can send a copy of that email to someone else by clicking Forward. When writing a new email, you can send it to one person, and/or you can send it to multiple people using Carbon Copies, or you can send it to multiple people where nobody knows who else the email has been sent to using Blind Carbon Copies. If you have to send an email to several people that don\rquote t already know each other, make sure to use BCC, otherwise you\rquote ll give all of them each other\rquote s email addresses. I got an email from NSCAD once where the sender forgot to do this and the entire student body found out each others email addresses. This doesn\rquote t give someone access to your account, but it opens you up to spam and harassment, and weakens the security of the account (instead of someone having to guess your email address and password, they\rquote ll just have to guess your password).\par
\par
If you need to give something your email address but you don\rquote t want to, for example if you suspect they\rquote ll send you spam or sign you up for mailing lists, you can use a service like Mailinator.com to get a quick free one. Anyone with the email address can access the inbox without a password, so it\rquote s not secure at all - don\rquote t sign up for anything important using this - but it\rquote s good for a quick disposable email address.\par
\par
\par
Sending files to others\par
See: Social Media, Email, the Cloud.\par
You can \lquote attach\rquote  files using email or some social media. Often there\rquote s a limit on the size of the file you can send. If you try to send a large file with Gmail, it\rquote ll ask if you want to send it as a google drive link instead - basically google drive is your google account\rquote s free cloud storage place, but it\rquote s not unlimited in size. You can also send files directly using google drive or a similar alternative like Dropbox. \par
You can upload files of certain types to online hosts - Imgur is a free image host, Youtube is a free video host - but it\rquote s not secure and not \lquote professional\rquote .\par
Remember to be clear about what it is when you send it so the other person or the service doesn\rquote t think it\rquote s spam.\par
\par
\par
\par
Social Media\par
Social media is a great way to stay connected and forge new connections with people you know and have just met. Popular social media sites include Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, and Reddit, Youtube, Pinterest, and Meetup.\par
Note that more and more employers are in the habit of checking applicants\rquote  social media before hiring, so you can either up the privacy settings on your account to keep them from seeing it, or only post work-friendly stuff, or have two accounts - a private regular account, and a clean, open \lquote work\rquote  account. Note that a private account might raise red flags with your employer - eg \ldblquote what are they hiding?\rdblquote  Stuff to avoid letting your employer see include pictures of you at parties, anything \ldblquote political\rdblquote  like rallies, protests, petitions..., racy pics, profanity, anything illegal or shady, etc.\par
\ldblquote According to a 2018 CareerBuilder survey, 70 percent of employers use social media to screen candidates during the hiring process, and about 43 percent of employers use social media to check on current employees\rdblquote  - BusinessNewsDaily\par
Also if you\rquote re dating, you should think about what you have public on your profile and what a private profile might suggest to your date. \par
\par
Facebook:\par
When signing up for facebook you have to use your real name and provide an email address. It will also ask for a phone number but I don\rquote t think it\rquote s required. You can also upload a profile picture, usually a picture of yourself so people know who you are. You can \lquote add friends\rquote  by typing their name into Facebook\rquote s search bar (note that this is different from the browser\rquote s address bar) and clicking on them and clicking Add Friend. If they add you back, you\rquote ll see updates from each other on your news feed, which is the page you see when you first log into facebook.\par
You can add photos to facebook and \ldblquote tag\rdblquote  people that were there by clicking on the picture where they are and typing their name. I think you can only tag people that you are Facebook friends with. This helps FB train their face-recognizing AI so depending on how much of a neo-luddite you are you might want to avoid tagging them by clicking on their face, so click on some other part of the photo instead and it\rquote ll still work the same.\par
There\rquote s an option in FB\rquote s security settings so that if someone tags you in a picture, you can review the picture before letting it post to your timeline. Your timeline is like your Facebook activity log, which people can access by going to your facebook profile. In FB settings you can change the settings so that only people that are Facebook friends with you can see your timeline. Otherwise, anyone can see it, even random strangers on the internet.\par
You can post \lquote statuses\rquote  that anyone who\rquote s facebook friends with you can see. You can also \lquote share\rquote  other people\rquote s posts so more people can see them, because people who are facebook friends with you can see posts you share.\par
If you see something on your news feed that you like, you can press \lquote like\rquote  and then the poster and anyone else seeing it can see that you like it. It\rquote s typically good form to like any posts from pages and events you support, and posts made by your good real-life friends. How many likes a post gets has an effect on how many more people see it. If you long-hold while clicking \lquote like\rquote  you\rquote ll get a few \lquote react\rquote  options - you can react with Like, Love, Shock, Anger, Sad, etc.\par
Two other important things you can do with Facebook though are Groups and Events. When you join a group (for example Ask Nova Scotia) you can see posts from other people in the group and you can post in that group. This is a great way to interact with people who have the same hobbies or live in the same place. \par
Events is great because if you say you\rquote re Interested in or Going to an event, you\rquote ll get reminders about it, and it\rquote ll show up in your Events calendar. \par
\par
Instagram:\par
Young people are migrating away from Facebook - most of my (earlytwenties-earlythirties) friends have both, but more and more teenagers only have Instagram (they have other social media accounts too, just not Facebook). Instagram differs from facebook in that posts can only be image (or video) based, with a text caption. Posts can still be liked. Sharing posts with people outside Instagram can be difficult. Instagram was designed with mobile devices in mind - you can still access it on a computer, but a very limited version. Also, where if you and another person are friends on Facebook, you automatically follow each other, on Instagram following people doesn\rquote t mean they see your updates - they have to follow you back.\par
A major feature of instagram is the hashtag - you can \lquote tag\rquote  your posts with hashtags to increase the chances people will see (and like) it, and you can browse hashtags to find specific content you\rquote re interested in. For example, if you post a picture of your corgi at the beach, you could tag it with #corgis #dogs #dogsofinstagram #corgisofinstagram #beach #beachday #crystalcrescent #novascotia #halifaxns etc. Then anyone browsing any of those hashtags can find your post.\par
Also, instagram has an \lquote explore\rquote  page where you can look at posts recommended for you or search for accounts or hashtags.\par
You can also \lquote @\rquote  people (=\rdblquote at\rdblquote , it\rquote s a verb) which means you specifically include their account in your post so they can see it and people reading your post can click to go to their page. @ people by writing @theiraccount in your text caption or in the comments of a post.\par
\par
The danger of quantifying \lquote likability\rquote\par
If I post something and it gets 21 likes, and my friend posts something and gets 25 likes, suddenly I\rquote m comparing our content and our social lives and stuff like the times of day they were posted on and where we live and what parts of our friend groups might be browsing at that time and if I have 300 followers and get 40 likes is that better than her getting 70 likes with 600 followers? and so on. Basically, quantifying social engagement with a number leads to all kinds of problems, because while some people are better liked than others, it\rquote s impossible to exactly sort through the reasons why, but the human animal can\rquote t help trying to if it\rquote s laid out in front of them so plainly. If we had both gotten 25 likes I would still be thinking about it.\par
The trick seems to be to consider how important it is to you that people \lquote like\rquote  your post, and either modify it or don\rquote t modify it or don\rquote t post it accordingly, and then how many likes you get is what you get. The problem with this of course is that it incentivizes users to modify how they express themselves and keep in touch with their loved ones in the name of making \lquote better\rquote /more \lquote likable\rquote  content. Which of course is what the company wants because it keeps people on their app which makes their advertisers more money which makes them more money but that\rquote s another topic, see If It\rquote s Free Then You Are The Product. It also incentivizes you to \lquote embellish\rquote  your life to encourage likes, which can range from carefully cropping out the mess in your living room to look cleaner and more together, to photoshopping yourself into pictures with celebrities and acting like you know them (yes, that\rquote s a real and surprisingly common thing). The one side of the scale is probably fine - we all clean up before guests come over and we personally toss things in our bedroom to hide them. The other end is undeniably unhealthy.\par
Alternatively you can decline to post anything, meaning friends and family can\rquote t see what you\rquote ve been up to unless you specifically individually tell them - and, importantly, a blank profile might be a red flag to a potential employer or a date.\par
Ultimately how you interact with social media should be up to you and what you\rquote re comfortable with. There are a lot of very real benefits to using it.\par
Note that this is all especially important to keep in mind if you\rquote re a parent. If adults struggle with this, it\rquote s all a thousand times harder for kids and teens, especially since they\rquote re so steeped in it and sensitive to their social standing at that age.\par
\par
Clickbait\par
See fake news, advertising+technology+your brain, \ldblquote If the service is free then you are the product\rdblquote , ads and adblockers, Dark Patterns\'85..\par
If a website is funded by advertising - and so, so many of them are - then the owners of that website have an incentive to increase the amount of pages viewed by any given visitor, because that means more advertisements have been seen, which increases the website owner\rquote s revenue. (Multi-page slideshows are a product of this same phenomenon). \par
To encourage you to load more pages, some sites will have articles with titles that promise something very interesting, and rarely deliver - their goal is not good content in the article, but to get you to click on the article. Some example headlines: \ldblquote This one weird trick for anti-aging has doctors furious\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Woman came home early, you won\rquote t believe what she discovered\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Is this food giving you cancer?\rdblquote . You\rquote ll notice that if they cared about getting this information to you, they\rquote d just put it in the headline.\par
\par
Fake news\par
See: all the same stuff as for Clickbait\par
An important side-effect of social media\rquote s sharing is that it got really easy to distribute information quickly without necessarily having to read it first. (This led to clickbait also) That plus the understanding that people like to get riled up led to deliberate misinformation in \lquote journalism\rquote  - headlines or articles designed to rile people up against something in particular and get them to share it without looking at it too closely. Note the difference in that clickbait is fluff masquerading as something useful, while fake news is straight-up lies often bordering on propaganda. Fake news influenced the 2016 American election and is undoubtedly also in Canadian politics. \par
Let\rquote s say my political opponent is pro-eating-purple-people. I am against it. My opponent says that he\rquote s pro-eating-purple-people because they\rquote re a nutritional food source and to just eat the sick and the elderly. I hire someone to write a fake news article saying that my opponent was seen at a party eating purple children and joking about \ldblquote veal\rdblquote . My supporters share it without questioning the validity of who published it or looking into the source of the story, and it goes viral. A week later my opponent is on TV having to deny ever eating purple children even though the story was totally made up. Enough undecideds swing my way and I win the election.\par
\par
\par
\par
The search engine as second brain\par
This article from scientificamerican.com does it a lot better than I can:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-internet-has-become-the-external-hard-drive-for-our-memories/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-internet-has-become-the-external-hard-drive-for-our-memories/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
\ldblquote In brief: \par
Remembering is traditionally a social enterprise. One person knows how to cook a turkey. A partner recalls how to fix the leak in the sink.\par
The Internet changes everything. With nearly ubiquitous online access, many people may first perform a smartphone search rather than calling a friend.\par
Being online all the time changes the subjective sense of self as borders between personal memories and information distributed across the Internet start to blur.\rdblquote\par
Also: \ldblquote The Internet may not only eliminate the need for a partner with whom to share information\emdash it may also undermine the impulse to ensure that some important, just-learned facts get inscribed into our biological memory banks. We call this the Google effect.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
Advertising, technology, millennials, and nostalgia\par
Forums\par
Music \endash  finding, downloading, managing\par
Pictures\par
Ads and adblockers / racketeering\par
"If the service is free, you are the product"\par
Keyboard shortcuts\f0\par
}
 